## Welcome

Tired of flaccid proposals?  
So are we.  
The BICH DAO has woken from its slumber.  

The Big Inches Club House is a loose federation of cypherpunk larpers, degens, and creatives.  
We are passionate, raw, and irreverent.  
Our mandate is to serve the Zenon Community.  

Accelerator-Z serves as the fountainhead of innovation and the community has started to engage.  
A few crucial elements remain missing:  
1. Due diligence
2. Price discovery
3. Competition

We aim to change that.  

AZ funds are paid for by the entire community. Any payouts now are probabilistically guaranteed to be future dumps.  
At the very least, existing rewards will be diluted as more capital competes for the same existing incentives.  
Our mandate thus requires us to help ensure these funds are spent as efficiently as possible.  

We are building the future of money. Serious business requires funding requests to undergo serious consideration.

## On-Chain Newsletter

The BICH DAO's first order of business will be the creation of an on-chain newsletter. Welcome! You are reading the genesis edition.  
For the forseeable future, every edition will be in the form of an AZ proposal and we may request funding based on the contents of the newsletter.  

The newsletter will include commentary, rigorous analysis, art, community memes, and hopes to represent the community members who align with our values.  

One common sentiment is that Pillars do not engage with the community or vote on proposals.  
We respect the time of all community members.  
We hope by delivering our newsletter directly on chain and providing concise summaries of information, that we can increase engagement and generate momentum.  

## Proposals and counter proposals

The community is best served when competition exists to drive innovation.  

In addition to our own ideas, we will also be submitting proposals which either complement or counter existing proposals.  
We are looking forward to sharing these proposals and other things we have in store in our next newsletter.  

## Support

If you would like to support our efforts, please consider donating to:  
**z1qraay709q07a28jn6arj085sfx8pqmzfmchlwl**

If you would like to contribute your time and intellectual capital please post the following where we can see it:  

## /thank_you_bich_dao
