previous: https://github.com/Big-Inches-Club-House/bich/blob/master/newsletter/1.md

## BREAKING: BICH DAO DECLARES WAR ON FUD

Big Inches Club House,  
My brothers in $INCHES,  
Not all Aliens are created equal.  
Step forward Zenon Zealots and claim your eternal glory.  

BICH DAO will supply armaments. We do what we must.  

https://youtu.be/vuz_uXapY3A

## Newsletter TLDR:

1. We will pursue our immediate goal of the successful passage of the BICH News #1: No = Small PP - Genesis Newsletter Proposal.
2. We will create an off-chain AZ framework for proposal due diligence, incubation, price discovery, and delegator-pillar value alignment.
3. We will open source our framework through AZ using the framework itself to enable other DAOs to do the same.
4. We will begin working with the community on technical proposals and compete against proposals we deem flaccid.
5. We will seek a path towards full community ownership of the DAO, through methods such as multisig and smart contracts.
6. We will include the best community contributions and content in the newsletter.

## Contents:

[Rally](#Rally)  
[Off-Chain AZ](#Off-Chain-AZ)  
[Community](#Community)  
[Support](#Support)

# Rally

As of yet, no proposals have been successfully funded.  

If it's because the proposals so far are flaccid, we hear you.  
If it's because of apathy, we'll do our best to be engaging.  
If it's because of lack of knowledge, we can fix this.  

We call upon our supporters to ensure the successful funding of our BICH News #1 proposal.  

Until then, BICH DAO is asking for small ZNN donations until we acheive sustainable funding. [Support](#Support)  
Following the publishing of this newsletter, the BICH DAO treasury will have 1 remaining ZNN for our next newsletter.  

Did you know that creating an AZ proposal sends 1 ZNN back into AZ?  
Any initial AZ funds granted to the BICH DAO will be recycled into AZ to create newsletters and other proposals to ensure our continued operations.

One thing we would like to do for the community is to help Anon builders acquire 1 ZNN to bootstrap their proposals.  

Our next newsletter will include a breakdown of the mechanics of AZ and voting to help overcome any knowledge barriers to successful funding.

## Off-Chain AZ

Cypherpunks write and share code. **Where did all the cypherpunks go?**  
Hyperspace, with its focus on SDKs and Interoperability, is stagnant and neglected.  
Instead we see technical proposals that don't even any produce code!  

### Price Discovery

We believe one major reason for this is the lack of competition and collaborative price discovery mechanisms.  
It can be difficult for one to quantify the value of one's own work;  
Submitting oneself on-chain is an act of vulnerability and possible discouragement.  
We cannot create competition out of thin air, but we can create price discovery mechanisms.  

BICH DAO will create an off-chain Accelerator-Z framework which addresses many issues.  

To solve the issue of price discovery, we will create a proposal incubator where proposers and pillars can reach necessary quorum and price agreement before submission on-chain.  

For example, one basic method we can use is binary search to narrow down the range of acceptable pricing.  
Pillars and delegators can be presented an intial number and successively asked to vote "Too High, Acceptable, Too Low" to narrow the funding into a tight range.  
Any proposer can then decide if this price is acceptable for them.  
This also allows the community to define and price necessary work while seeking builders who are capable of delivering it.  

### Proposal Due Diligence and Characterization

As part of our off-chain AZ framework, BICH DAO will perform analysis on our own and other popular proposals and assign tags and ratings to them.

Some example tags:  
Positive:  
* Helps Decentralization
* Helps Network Security
* Helps Delegation Value Incentives
* Enables increased competition

Negative:  
* Hurts Decentralization
* Hurts Network Security
* Hurts Delegation Value Incentives
* Unnecessary Centralization
* Lacks (Non-Sybil) Competition or Price Discovery

Based on these tags, BICH DAO will rate popular proposals either:  
**VIGOROUS** or **FLACCID**

### Delegator Pillar Value Alignment

Once our proposal analysis and tagging system is implemented, we can now apply scoring methods to Pillars to rank them based on their voting histories.  
BICH DAO will rank Pillars according to their PP and voting history for VIGOROUS and FLACCID proposals.  
To those voting NO on the BICH News #1 proposal so far, Thank You for providing us the opportunity to demo.  

In the future, as proposals become more specialized, we can apply additional categorizations to track how Pillars engage with different types of proposals.  

Our framework will also let Delegators to take the (revokable) Big PP pledge to only delegate to Pillars who have big PP.  
We will track the total weight of those who have made the pledge and their delegations to show the network our strength and vigor.  

### Open Source Framework

Upon finishing the framework and demonstrating its value to the community, we will open source it through AZ.  
This will help enable other DAOs to operate and help align delegators with their stated values.

We hope that this process can serve as a model for value creation in the Zenon ecosystem.  

### Flaccid Proposals to ZERO

Through our framework, BICH DAO will work to support Vigorous proposals and counter/compete with Flaccid proposals.  
For example, we will work with community members to define, price, and market their proposals.

Let the games begin.  

## Community

We have many ideas, and will be as ambitious as the community which supports us.  
For now, our focus will be the creation of our off-chain AZ framework and analysis of popular proposals.

One key risk to the long term success of the BICH DAO is its current centralized management.  
BICH DAO and its treasury strives to be wholly decentralized, controlled, and owned by its supporters.  
We will implement DAO management through methods such as multisignature and smart contracts when available.

We want our newsletter to represent our supporters.  
We want to share their passions, their brainpower, and even their frustrations.  

**Our next newsletter will include instructions on how to submit material**

Our framework will allow for our supporters to vote to distribute treasury funds to those who contribute.  
Long term, we hope to support community members who support us.  

## Support

If you would like to support our efforts, please consider donating to:  
**z1qraay709q07a28jn6arj085sfx8pqmzfmchlwl**

If you like our efforts, you can let us know by posting the following where we can see it:

## /thank_you_bich_dao
