previous: https://github.com/Big-Inches-Club-House/bich/blob/master/newsletter/2.md

## Mashallah

BICH DAO,  
Sisters,  
Why do we do what we do?  
Bitcoin Ethos must be more than empty words!  
We must exemplify our principles with action.  

The North Star shines ever brightly in the night sky.  
To those who can see, take a first step and your path will follow.  
Dispel the fog of FUD, and do not rely on the path of others.  

## Newsletter TLDR:

1. Consummate the BICH DAO by voting for the completion of BICH News #1: No = Small PP
2. We have minted our first NFTs on NoM to begin research and development in this area
3. We have started working on our off-chain AZ framework
4. We will work with our supporters as they mint their own NFT collections
5. We will collaborate with the community to ensure competition exists for Smart Contract Research
6. Use Twitter hashtag #WhereIsMrKaine to share with us
7. Thank you for all your support so far

In our last newsletter, we promised a breakdown of the mechanics of AZ in this newsletter edition.  
We wanted to get this edition launched asap, and will postpone the AZ breakdown until the next edition. Apologies.  

Our BICH News #1: No = Small PP proposal has reached quorum far quicker than we anticipated.  
Thank you! To all the pillars showing their support.  
We have now created a phase within our proposal.  
This will allow us to complete the proposal which will distribute the 10 ZNN and 100 QSR.  
Make history, set high standards for our network, and consummate the BICH DAO by Voting Yes once more.  

Throughout the course of network governance, your Yes votes and perhaps even more so your No votes will set the bar.  
Pillars will need to maintain the difficult balance of short term community and delegator approval vs long term network health.  
Vote wisely.  

**Q: Do you have beef with Zenon Wiki?**  
While we respect the work that Zenon Wiki has done, they are currently ineffective.  
Their model for success relies on an active community of collaborative learning.  
In current market conditions, it's quite a foolish thing to expect.  
Zenon Wiki, from what we've heard, also has a mandate to be apolitical and neutral. (Boring and sterile).  
BICH DAO is unapologetically political. We will ruthlessly advance the Big PP agenda and our principles.  
When appropriate, we will work with Zenon Wiki as a neutral partner to collaborate on ZIPs and other standards (ZRC?)  

## Contents:

[Minting NFTs](#NFTs)  
[Smart Contract Research](#Smart-Contracts)  
[Community](#Community)  
[Support](#Support)

# NFTs

We have minted our first NFTs on NoM using ZTS.  

Before we explain what we mean, we will first quickly explain how NFTs work on Ethereum.  

Tokens on Ethereum are built on the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) which can be used for general purpose computation/ smart contracts.  
Computers store and send data in a binary format of 1's and 0's.  
Technology Standards allow all of us to interpret the 1's and 0's and assign meaning to them in the same way.  

On Ethereum, token standards allow the community to agree on how to use the EVM to represent tokens.  
These token standards define certain rules and interfaces that the smart contract should follow.  
The most notable token standards on Ethereum are ERC-20 and ERC-721.  

[ERC-20](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-20/) defines a token standard to create fungible tokens.  
The contract defines a single token (supply, decimals, etc) and keeps tracks of the balance for each address.  
The token can be identified using its unique smart contract address.  

[ERC-721](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-721/) defines a token standard to create non-fungible tokens.  
The contract defines a set of numbered tokens and their owners. Each token has an implicit supply of 1 with 0 decimals.  
An NFT can be identified by its unique combination of (smart contract address, internal token id).  

The ERC-721 standard also has an optional metadata extension, where each token can be given additional data.  
The extension defines a tokenURI function which takes in the tokenId and returns a link to the metadata for that token.  
For example, calling the tokenURI function on the BAYC function for token 0 returns ipfs://QmeSjSinHpPnmXmspMjwiXyN6zS4E9zccariGR3jxcaWtq/0  

[IPFS](ipfs.io) is a decentralized file storage system.  
If one has a browser with IPFS support, one can see that url contains a bit of data in a [json](json.org) format.  
We will format it for convenience.  

```
{
  "image":"ipfs://QmRRPWG96cmgTn2qSzjwr2qvfNEuhunv6FNeMFGa9bx6mQ",
  "attributes":[
    {"trait_type":"Earring","value":"Silver Hoop"},
    {"trait_type":"Background","value":"Orange"},
    {"trait_type":"Fur","value":"Robot"},
    {"trait_type":"Clothes","value":"Striped Tee"},
    {"trait_type":"Mouth","value":"Discomfort"},
    {"trait_type":"Eyes","value":"X Eyes"}
  ]
}
```

We can see that the metadata defines the token's image and its traits.  

**Now back to Zenon.**  

Instead of defining tokens on top of a general purpose smart contract runtime,  
Zenon provides an embedded smart contract for ZTS tokens.  
(We'll go over some difference in the next section).  
ZTS tokens behave similarly to ERC-20 tokens.  
They define fungible tokens and allow for different amount of decimals points.  
They can be identified uniquely with their zts address.  

Unlike ERC-20, the Zenon Token Standard (zts) includes a token domain.  
By setting the token domain to be metadata (like with BAYC), max supply to 1, and decimals to 0, we can effectively create an NFT.  
Under these constraints, each unique NFT will require a 1 ZNN token burn.  

(Ideally we would like to use a native ipfs:// address scheme for the token domain.  
However, ZTS does not allow for slashes in the token domain. We work around this by using IPFS gateway subdomaining.)  

During BTC's taproot activation, Mr Kaine asked the community for a donation of around .01 BTC  
A community member sent .0095 (.01 minus fees).  
Another community member intended to send .0005 to cover the difference but accidentally sent .005  

Mr Kaine used both inputs to create the Zenon Logo on the taproot activation block 709632  
https://twitter.com/Zenon_Network/status/1460240120309760010  

**To commemorate the event, BICH DAO has minted two NFTs.**  
zts1xdrr952z5zmz5ea7cex0x4  
zts1t9ttvamu9zvczwz2t352x8  

We will transfer these NFTs to the community members who donated.  

Both have the name and symbol: BTC709632  
They are distinct ZTS tokens each with max supply of 1 and 0 decimals.  
Both have a token domain of http://bafkreid464u2yohrhdeh2jgeqcawyypl3e27c5njb5itox5ndf7znqziea.ipfs.dweb.link/
Which contains the following metadata:  

```
{
  "name":"BTC709632",
  "description":"Never doubt you can make history. You already have.",
  "image":"ipfs://bafkreih5dgbmgtlptx66qyfbsmtkc6p36yrvbvvsp6ry3epyv4jl4x67fq",
  "animation_url":"ipfs://bafkreiewkngz7lz3mjqjq6jz7w3jstgvxf7o2gfbowygedcouuswydcwa4",
  "external_url":"https://twitter.com/Zenon_Network/status/1460240120309760010"
}
```

We have followed the [OpenSea Metadata Standards](https://docs.opensea.io/docs/metadata-standards) to help with library compatability.  

We believe these are the first NFTs on NoM. Kinda...  
There are actually 2 existing ZTS tokens with 1 suppy and 0 decimals.  
They both have the name TESTTKN, are created by the same address, and point to google.com.

We will leave it to the community to decide whether those count.  

Did you know that **Hale DAO** was the first supporter of BICH DAO?  
To repay their kindness, BICH DAO will provide support to Hale DAO if they choose to mint on NoM,  
Using currently possible methods, or future methods.  
BYOB (Bring your own burn)  

Community members have brought up the ability of ERC-721 contracts to define multiple NFTs as a collection.  
We have a few ideas on how to define collections using what's available with ZTS.  
What's currently missing is mostly additional Quality of Life wallet support.  

Different NFT standards will likely be possible once NoM has a general purpose smart contract runtime.  

While our current focus remains on our off-chain AZ framework as described in our last newsletter,  
We are excited to work with the community on an area it is passionate about.  
These first steps will allow us to progress towards the new NFT standard as described by the Zenon devs.  

We would also like to formally invite Zenon-Chan and Quasar-Chan to join the BICH DAO.  

## Smart Contracts

Congratulations to AZ Proposal: *Zenon VM research project* for advancing to the next stage!  
We look forward to seeing the results of your work.  
One of BICH DAO's core principles is that competition creates the best innovation and results.  
We do not believe that the proposal, as written, has any barriers preventing others from making similar, or even duplicate competing proposals.  
We also take some issue with its general lack of enthusiasm and underlying premises: (paraphrasing)  
*"We don't really want to make this proposal, but it seems like Mr Kaine has abandoned us.  
If no one does this works, Zenon is nothing more than a BSC shitcoin"*  

BICH DAO will provide the 1 ZNN fee for any credible community members to create a competing AZ proposal for smart contract runtime virtual machine research.  

In the future, BICH DAO will likely make its own Smart Contract related proposals or seek to work with teams making signficant progress.  
Our toughest battles are ahead of us. BICH DAO will work with Fighters.  

One idea we have is after spinning up the BICH DAO testnet, we will a create a smart contract that allows people to choose their favorite owned NFT.  
We can first do this using an embedded smart contract, and then as a simple use case for a generic smart contract runtime.  
This NFT registration on chain could be used as a profile picture in Syrius, the BICH DAO website, and across other applications that rely on Zenon addresses for identity.  
Sporking this contract onto mainnet would have questionable value, however the exercise will provide for valuable and engaging research opportunities.  

Curiously, one of the authors of the VM Research proposal, asked a question regarding the advantages of embedded contracts over general purpose runtimes, in the context of protocol level oracles.  
We are surprised that answering this question is not covered under the scope of their proposal.  

We will answer the question in a general way.  
The same principles will apply in the context of protocol level oracles.  
We may decide to charge for further exposition.  

There are several advantages and disadvantages of embedded smart contracts over a general runtime environment.  

At a high level:  

1. Access vs Isolation
2. Upgradability vs Immutability
3. Performance

Embedded smart contracts are able to be given direct access to any object or data that the node itself has.  
With such power and access, embedded smart contracts must be code that is trusted.  
Any bugs could ruin the integrity of the ledger itself.  

A properly implemented vm runtime provides a layer of isolation.  
The vm provides an interface to the underlying ledger data.  
This interface controls the scope of data any particular smart contract is allowed to access.  
By giving each smart contract its own data scope, bugs in the smart contract cannot ruin the integrity of the overall ledger.  
The blast radius would be limited to the affected smart contract (and other contracts which call it).  
The cost of this safety is the complexity of the vm.  

Code, especially involving cryptography, must adapt or die.  
For example, the devs have mentioned quantum resistant hashes.  

Changes to embedded smart contracts are code changes for the node itself.  
Performance or internal logic changes that don't change functionality can be done without a spork.  
However any functional changes which change the protocol will need to go through governance.  
Embedded smart contracts are directly upgradable in this way.  
When the node is upgraded, it "forgets" previous versions.  

Smart contracts on a vm runtime are generally speaking immutable. They cannot change.  
Usually the contract address is generated through hashing the contract itself.  
In this case, changing the contract would result in a completley different smart contract address.  
As we mentioned in our comments on isolation, these smart contracts are only allowed access to their own scoped data (funds).  
Under these constraints, smart contract upgrades would require users to migrate funds and interact with the new address.  
These contracts will permanently exist on-chain.  

One way that immutable contracts can work around this is by controlling funds but delegating computation to another variable smart contract.  
The smart contract could allow for a governance process, (owner controlled, dao controlled, etc) to change the smart contract used for computation.  

It is unwise to make assertions about performance without profiling and benchmarking.  
However we will make a few comments.  
Embedded smart contracts are included in the node software itself.  
Meaning that it is loaded and kept in memory for fast access.  

User uploaded smart contracts for a general vm runtime, will almost certainly be stored on disk as txs  
Ignoring any caching, they will need to be retrieved and then loaded onto the vm.  
The vm isolation will incur a small perhaps neglible performance penalty  
The vm can also provide interfaces to compiled code for computationally intensive functions.  

## Community

BICH DAO has promised to include the best community created and curated content in the newsletter.  

Have Bitcoin, Crypto, Zenon news or memes you want to share?  
Need to rant or have a favorite copypasta?  
Do you have a favorite pillar?  
Want to make commentary on a proposal?  

Which proposal do you want us to analyze first?  

**Use Twitter hashtag #WhereIsMrKaine**  
Our next newsletter #4 will begin to include community content.  

**Q: Do you have a Twitter?**  
No. BICH DAO does not care for followers on a centralized platform.  
Instead, we will elevate the profiles of our supporters.  

## Support

If you would like to support our efforts, please consider donating to:  
**z1qraay709q07a28jn6arj085sfx8pqmzfmchlwl**  

Following our last newsletter and call for support, we raised 273 ZNN from private funds.  
These funds will sustain us as we complete our proof of work and earn your continued trust.  
We are humbled and will continue our fight.  
Your support means everything to us.  

## thank_you,
## bich_dao
