# BICH News #6

### Letter from the editor 

*Jul/Aug 2022*

Apologies for the absence.  
I took about a month off and have been playing catch-up for the past few weeks for all my obligations. 

During my holiday, I spent July 4th reading up on the early years of America, the bitter ideological rivalry between Jefferson and Adams, and the establishment of the first national bank. 

I find it very interesting how the same concerns regarding centralization vs decentralization echo through time. 

When I look at the digital empires of today and fledgling networks such as ourselves, I can’t help but draw parallels.

Getting mentally back into it now and happy to see the community continue to work hard.

It seems like a lot of people in crypto have taken a step back. A time for reflection.

As a result, one sentiment I have seen echoing on Twitter is people realizing how little crypto means to most people in general. 

Indeed, while our community and the greater crypto community is comprised of investors and forward looking technologists, most people are simply trying to live their day to day lives. And in these times, mere survival may be a concern.

For these exact reasons we must press forward.

Of course any disruptive technology has the ability to transfer mass amounts of wealth. And we all hope to be on the receiving end.

But from the perspective of a society, what matters is the net change in wealth created and how that is distributed among different parts of society.

Our world leaders tell us that now is a time of scarcity and slowing growth, and to prepare for austerity. Birth rates across the world are declining. For some natural resources, our ability to cheaply harvest them is supposedly coming to an end.

How do we deal with this?

I believe this is the big ideological debate of our times.

I don’t have any easy answers, but I know that the existing models and assumptions of wealth growth/preservation will begin to fail.

When I look at my family, my friends, and the people in my community, I worry for them. In a world preparing itself for austerity, what share of the burden will they bear? Will it be fair? Will they have a say?

Most of the people in my life do not want to be investors but are willing to work hard. In many ways, they cannot be investors because they work hard to keep our societies running. Likewise, when it comes to political representation.

In a changing world, I worry that these people will be hurt the most, perhaps even taken advantage of. In a model of slowing growth or even contraction, the tax of arbitrary inflation reveals its full weight.

So I want to help people preserve their wealth. Cryptography can help ensure social consensus regarding property rights.

But is mitigation the best that we can do? Or can we do better?

Individual efforts build on top of the collective. And different societies have their own beliefs on the relative weights of the individual vs the collective.

But I think in all modern societies, there is an underlying economic and moral principle, that whoever makes the effort to create value is entitled to its benefits. 
(Profit sharing and taxation accounting for the contributions of others and the collective.)

Bitcoin’s proof of work reflects this principle. 
Each miner will probabilistically create blocks and receive rewards proportionate to the energy they spend. Although they act individually to compete with each other, as a collective they create something greater: security which has been infeasible to attack.

This competition incentivizes the creation of efficient energy infrastructure. So far Bitcoin has had scaling limitations. But perhaps with further innovation and emerging energy abundance we can do better than mitigating for austerity. 

Interestingly, in our web2 digital societies and social media platforms, we see what practically amounts to a complete violation of our fundamental principle.

And I believe this is reflected in the enormous valuations of these platforms. 

Advertising revenue share is completely at the mercy of the platform, often with arbitrary rules. So most content creators in practice rely on brand deals. The everyday user, who is often the lifeblood of the platforms, receives only tokens of attention for any contributions/data they provide.

Of course those who maintain the infrastructure and the trust for such digital communities to exist should be entitled to a share of the value created on their platforms.

But how much? Unlike the real world, digital communities are opt-in and not restricted by physical geography. I believe open source decentralized networks can create a competitive marketplace of communities where users are appropriately rewarded for their contributions.

Before asking wen moon, we must first understand why.

From a personal perspective, of course while I seek to make investment returns, I desperately want change in our societies as well.

I want people who work hard to be able to keep more of their wealth instead of having it arbitrarily taken. I want our contributions in the digital world to be fairly valued and compensated for. 

I want better models of governance where the will of the people, rather than the money printer, decides what collective actions to take. 

I want to step into a changing world with confidence for the future of our societies. 

Perhaps it is too ambitious, but I believe the devs have given us the rare opportunity (immaculate conception?) to achieve these goals and more through our own efforts. That’s why I’m proud to be part of this community.

I’m still working on implementing Atomic swaps via HTLC. At this point, it’s not really a challenge for me anymore. Really just hours that need to be put in.

I’m trying to put in effort consistently but in actuality doing this part time has meant periodic bursts of activity until I can focus again. The devs have pushed back the Hyperspace deadline, so I will make sure to finish it before then. Need to hit consistency.

I also wanted to make sure that before fully diving into technical work, that I didn’t neglect educational work.

I’m very happy to see more community members recently take up the mantle of education.

It seems like the “what” is being adequately covered so I really wanted to focus on the why.

Thus, I’ve hired Professor G as a founding member of BICH University, aka U. BICH. 
He has delivered his first lecture of his course “Cryptocurrencies: Monetary Theory and Protocol Design”. I am happy with the feedback so far. The course will be a non-technical course starting from the human condition and discussing how to design decentralized networks with it in mind.
 
In many ways, the current market feels like a breather to better prepare and do things right. Yet we must remember the urgency of our mission. 

To everyone who is still here fighting,

/thank_you  
BICH DAO
