[previous](https://github.com/Big-Inches-Club-House/bich/blob/master/newsletter/6.md)

# BICH NEWS #7
Happy Halloween and Happy Bitcoin Whitepaper Day!  
Today the world is filled with fear and hope alike.  

Fear for the health and safety of our loved ones.  
Fear for the consequences of speaking truth to the world.  
Fear of the unknown and the end of prosperity as we know it.  

They say that Courage is not the absence of Fear but the Triumph over it.  
We hope there is enough courage left in our hearts. 

We are the Big Inches Club House.  
We turn towards Syrius, the brightest star in the night sky, in hope for a better future and a more just world.  
Our heavy Inches point the way, so our natural momentum is forward.  

As stated in our first newsletter:  
> The Big Inches Club House is a loose federation of cypherpunk larpers, degens, and creatives.  
> We are passionate, raw, and irreverent.  
> Our mandate is to serve the Zenon Community.  

Some have commented that we are an imaginary DAO.  
Indeed we have no roster. No governance structure.  
But yet our numbers grow.  

Many of our supporters have received our tokens of gratitude.  

So what do our Big Inches measure?  
Some community members make childish and crude suggestions.  
But in reality, what we are measuring is the Heart.  

Tenacity in the pursuit of excellence and the truth.  
Humanity in the face of suffering.  
Willingness to sacrifice for what you believe in.  

To all those who bravely forge their own path in the service of others, we are proud to have you in our DAO.  

Of course, not all will be able to join our ranks.  
It is a tale as old as time:  
Those who beg for the leadership of others are destined to regret it.  

They say if you wish to build a ship, do not divide the men into teams and send them to the forest to cut wood.  
Instead, teach them to long for the vast and endless sea.  

When given the chance for personal sovereignty, will you seize it?  
It is a scary prospect, for sovereignty bears the burden of responsibility.  

When the chains that bind you are laid broken and bare, will you cast them aside?  
Or will you seek the comfort of the only masters you have known?  

The world now desperately watches every word of a chosen few to divine the storms ahead.  
BICH brothers, BICH sisters, hope to see you on the other side.  

---

I had the pleasure recently of interviewing community members 0x3639 and Shazz.  
We had the opportunity to work together on [zip:deeZNNutz-0001](https://github.com/deeZNNutz-com/ZIP.deeZNNutz/blob/main/0001.md), a decentralized approach to ZIPs

**How did you learn about Zenon and why did you decide to join the community?**

Shazz:
> The first time I was made aware of zenon was because of a tweet of galaxybtc. Then I read [Shai's enigma paper](https://medium.com/@shaimo/the-zenon-enigma-782f8b293bd6) and the zenon whitepaper. That's what got me hooked. I decided to actively join the community because this has always been an investment (as opposed to a trade) for me and I wanted to be part of all of this as much as possible, hoping I might eventually be able to help shape the journey of the project.  

0x3639:
> I learned about Zenon from [@mehowbrainz](https://twitter.com/mehowbrainz).  I spent 20 hours researching the project and then acquired a large ZNN position.  The more I learned about the network the more I wanted to make a difference by operating a Pillar.  Over the following months I acquired QSR and launched a Pillar about 2 months after my first ZNN purchase.  I've decided to become active in the community and focus exclusively on NoM because (1) the project has enormous potential, (2) VCs don't benefit from my efforts, and (3) my skills are beneficial to the project.  And, I love working with the other community members.  They are extremely smart with diverse backgrounds and they seem to share many of my core values.  

**What are your hopes for the network? What do you envision?**

0x3639:
> I hope NoM creates a trustless bridge with the Bitcoin Network and we become the Layer 2 smart contracting and execution layer for the Bitcoin Network.  I also hope we can live independently from Bitcoin and foster native applications that don't necessarily leverage other L1s.  

Shazz:
> Throughout our specie's social evolution, human society has been subject to a dichotomy that split it into two fundamentally contrarian forces. The majority, who desires individual autonomy through decentralization. And the minority, who desires to exploit a (often unfairly attained) concentrated resource advantage to subjugate and rule from a centralized position of power. While the latter seemingly kept the upper hand during this millennia-old class war, conquests towards individual autonomy through decentralization kept gaining ground. Omni monopolistic  feudalism is gradually reduced with decentralization of ownership (the ability to legally own property) and governance (the ability to legally vote and influence government decisions). However, governments can still expropriate you and void your rights to vote if you don't comply with their laws. With the decentralization of money through Bitcoin, individual autonomy over movable purchasing power has reached a new, global level that surpasses legal restrictions of nation states. As a result. there are increasing regulatory attempts by governments to censor and tame Bitcoin and systematically misrepresent the advantages of PoW through memetic pretexts such as AML and ESG compliance. 

> Humanity cannot afford for Bitcoin to be tamed and risk the exponential decentralization it introduced to be undermined. My hope for Zenon is that it will supercharge Bitcoin by leveraging its scope of application.  

> Native Bitcoin as monetized energy is a hard commodity that is not really usable for billions of microtransactions on a daily basis. Nor should it be. As you fittingly said: "Only a moron would spend deflationary, energy-constrained Bitcoin on a digital good. But that doesn't mean that transaction should not occur". Bitcoin is also not designed to tokenize and efficiently trade physical or digital assets, exercise votes, or create immutable, autonomous contractual frameworks. BUT Bitcoin PoW provides the foundational security underlying all of these use cases. 

> To quote Balaji Srinivasan: Humanity has reached its third Leviathan.  
> The first was the God State. God is dead.  
> The second is the Nation State. Nations are dying.  
> The third one is the [Network State](https://thenetworkstate.com/). And the Network is rising.  

> My vision is for Zenon to become the flexible DLT framework that allows the creation of truly trustless and decentralized value chains, organizational structures, contractual frameworks. and governance processes on a global level while leveraging the security of Bitcoin's PoW as ultimate instance of consensus adjudication. 

> I hope Zenon will enable Bitcoin to become the foundation for decentralized network states that make archaic national borders and jurisdictions redundant.

**How are you coping with the price right now?**

Shazz:
> By putting on my green underpants and delivering as much value to the network as I can and trusting that by doing so, I can help attract more people that will make Zenon achieve its goals and free us from the archaic shackles imposed on human society.  

0x3639:
> I'm already committed with my time and money.  I see the current price action as an opportunity to buy.  When I first started to buy the market cap was 40m. I've bought all the way down to 7m and just view it as dollar cost averaging.  I also cope by exploring schizo theories but keep them to myself.

**What was the most interesting thing about working on ZIP:deeZNNutz-0001?**

0x3639:
> The most interesting thing was learning that two n00bs (Shazz and me) with ZERO experience upgrading a blockchain can become knowledgeable enough to propose a framework to improve and upgrade NoM.  It goes to show every community member can add value, even if they don't have a technical background.  You just have to try.  

Shazz:
> The unique chance to help break new ground on designing how a decentralized, open source DLT should govern and improve itself. The process of creating the ZIP process by consolidating community-wide feedback was incredibly rewarding for me.
 
**What kind of things do you want to work on it the future?**

Shazz:
> A bilateral marketplace for fee-less or low-fee lending, borrowing and trading without the need for liquidity pools and risk of impermanent loss. However, I can only design the platform, it will need help to build it.

> Apart from that I will work on anything that I believe will bring value to the network and for which I can deliver superior quality.  

0x3639:
> I want to work on an all in one node that launches go-zenon, nginx, and grafana in a docker environment.  I also plan to deploy a more robust NaaS (Node as a service) for the community.  Finally, I would love to work on a DEX that is based on an order book, rather than AMM. Basically, makers would create an order book in the form of HTLCs.  The sum of all HTLCs would form an order book.  And because NoM is feeless the orderbook approach might work.

**What does being nominated for HyperGrowth/HyperCore mean to you?**

0x3639:
> Many aspects of NoM are modeled after the Bitcoin ethos, and I suspect HyperCore will be no different.  "Bitcoin Core" is an open source community that maintains the Bitcoin software. Over time, I assume the founding developers will transition the Zenon official Github repo to the HyperCore community.  I think we, along with many other open source contributors, will be responsible for maintaining and coordinating the upgrade of the core software.  

> Being part of HyperCore is pretty exciting for me.  I'm a real estate developer with no formal technology training.  But I do have many years of experience tinkering with computers and networks.  And I have a lot of experience building stuff.  I'm honored the founding developers selected a community member who does not code professionally to be part of HyperCore. I hope it convinces other community members to step outside their comfort zone and try something new to help NoM move forward.  

Shazz:
> To my understanding it is a result of posting the hashtag #TheAliensKnow and farming engagement on Twitter. Since I don't know what responsibilities are assigned to HyperGrowth/Core teams, it bears little relevance for me at this moment. But I am curious to see what it will entail.  
