# BICH News #8

### Happy first birthday to Alphanet!

In War and Peace, Tolstoy writes:
>
> Each man lives for himself, using his freedom to attain his personal aims, and feels with his whole being that he can now do or abstain from doing this or that action; but as soon as he has done it, that action performed at a certain moment in time becomes irrevocable and belongs to history, in which it has not a free but a predestined significance.
> 
> There are two sides to the life of every man, his individual life, which is the more free the more abstract its interests, and his elemental hive life in which he inevitably obeys laws laid down for him.
>
> Man lives consciously for himself, but is an unconscious instrument in the attainment of the historic, universal, aims of humanity. A deed done is irrevocable, and its result coinciding in time with the actions of millions of other men assumes an historic significance. The higher a man stands on the social ladder, the more people he is connected with and the more power he has over others, the more evident is the predestination and inevitability of his every action.
>
> “The king's heart is in the hands of the Lord.”
> 
> A king is history's slave.
>
> History, that is, the unconscious, general, hive life of mankind, uses every moment of the life of kings as a tool for its own purposes.

Regardless of if one agrees with Tolstoy on the fatalistic course of humankind, I am confident in two things.

1. Through this humble newsletter, today I address future Kings.

2. Though each day is filled with uncertainty, after we have Zenonized the world, it will have all seemed so inevitable. 

Our founding devs recently gave us some advice: The best tech doesn’t always win but the best stories rarely lose.

I am humbled by the passion the community brings. Each day it has been an honor to write our story together thus far.

> "The Times 03/Jan/2009 Chancellor on brink of second bailout for banks."

I won’t elaborate too much on fiat central banking here. 

With recent events, we hear about how millions of cryptocurrency users will likely lose their money without outside bailout.  
We see the damage caused by a new host of malicious or perhaps simply incompetent actors. 

Has Bitcoin failed?

I won’t elaborate too much on the benefits of Bitcoin or the gold standard here.  
But the analogy of Bitcoin to digital gold has many merits.  
And the comparison has helped many understand Bitcoin at an intuitive level.

But gold has its shortcomings.  
The encumbrances of gold enabled the gold smiths to become the first banks.  
They used their vaults to accept gold deposits and issue paper IOUs. 

This system could only work if it was more efficient overall to trust the banks and accept the risks than transact with gold directly.  
This trust emboldened the banks to begin the system of debt and fractional reserve banking (and bank runs). 

When we look at the encumbrances of Bitcoin (and even Lightning), are we doomed to repeat historical precedent?  
We see custodial bitcoin for the masses, and the same games of old.

While we can educate individuals on the principles and methods of self custody, aggregate behavior of society will settle on efficiency.

People say Bitcoin will be the greatest wealth transfer in the history of the world.

Some believe that the benefits and encumbrances of Bitcoin will lead to an era of digital gold banking, an old game remastered with new modern pieces.  
And so they jockey to be new gold smiths where you place all your trust.

Some believe that they can achieve the same benefits without the encumbrances.  
Naive proof of stake implementations being a prime example.  
Here we have the same game of central banking, with a new board and aspiring players.  
And so they tussle so that the chain they control comes out on top.

It is doubtful whether or not they will be able to provide the same benefits. As PoS has its own drawbacks.

Our industry has also now caught the attention of the incumbent players.  
Just now we hear about more CBDC trials and development.  
An answer to our decentralized currencies and the power for further control and surveillance.

So what are we to do?  
Are we truly doomed to suffer under the same games as we do now?

There is a silver lining.  
I cannot say if it is a our predetermined historical fate or a fleeting chance, but we must seize it.

The analogy of bitcoin to gold fails in a few areas.  
Perhaps the most important is the ability for collaboration.

Physical gold custody gives up full control and ultimately depends on physical force and the trust relations which form around it.

Bitcoin offers tools such as multisig and taproot that allow for collaboration and risk sharing.  
We can spread out trust and mitigate the risks of broken trust by a single party.

With new protocols we can create incentives where we no longer need to trust individuals to hold up their end of the bargain,  
but rather trust that they will follow their incentives.

The internet and its ability to transmit and replicate information to create value unbounded by its marginal costs have created a new economy of wealth with a need for its own sound money.  
Is soundness simply about supply, or alignment with the economy it serves?

And so begins our chapter of the story.  
Enter Zenon the Network of Momentum, formally birthed into the world at Taproot’s launch. 

While Bitcoin has a strong historical analogy, Zenon does not.  
It will be up to us as protocol designers to balance the needs of bitcoin, the shortcomings of PoS, the properties of the digital economy, etc.

Recent events have many people calling for justice.  
Indeed our world is not fair.  
Some are born tall, funny, and handsome with many inches.  
Others are born to cope.  
I hope those who seek justice find it.

People say Bitcoin will be the greatest wealth transfer in the history of the world.  
Some see this as an opportunity for justice.  
To ensure those, including themselves, who they believe deserve wealth will have it.

It can range from helping the persecuted survive to a desire to flip the roles of oppressor and the oppressed.

However it is much easier to identify injustice than to deliver justice.  
We all have different value systems and if injustice involves the destruction of value, it cannot always be reconstituted through pen or the sword. 

So what should our aim be as protocol designers?  
In an unfair world. Where justice may be undeliverable in many cases.

As new players join our game, many will have external advantages over others.  
I can’t always say they are deserved, but there’s not much we can do to about it.  
Many new players will not be good actors. Many will have unjustly wronged others.

The only thing we can do is design systems and protocols where injustice is harder.  
Systems where broken trust doesn’t happen because there is no need to trust.  
Incentives where earned advantages don’t exponentially compound into unearned advantages.  
Economies where creating the most value for others is the same as creating the most value for yourself.  

As protocol designers, our concern is not who plays and wins in our game,  
but that the game results in our greatest shared prosperity. 

The more successful we are, the more the incumbents will feel threatened.  
My message to them is that the game is changing and truly decentralized networks are inevitable.  
We welcome all to play.

My future Kings, congratulations on 1 year of Alphanet!  
I know our next chapter will be a good one, for it is ours to write.

---

I had the pleasure of interviewing Sigli for this special anniversary editon of BICH News.

**How did you learn about Zenon and why did you decide to join the community?**

> It all started with a tweet from @galaxyBTC then I went on btctalk to learn more about the project and decided to start by acquiring 800 ZNN during the distribution phase and eventually I continued to accumulate ZNN after deciding that this was the project I wanted to contribute to. 

**What are your hopes for the network? What do you envision?**

> I think we're on the right track, with a solid foundation and an exceptional community. 
>
> I'm still on the lookout for other projects, but I haven't found anything yet that hooks me like our project. 
>
> Being part of this community and contributing to this project is what allows me to expand my skills and learn more and more every day. 

**How are you coping with the price right now?**

> No need to cope, everything is temporary.

**Sigli… Zed… Are you a big gamer?**

> Not anymore but back in the days I used to organize LAN parties at home. I played a lot of Diablo, StarCraft, Warcraft, AoE, C&C, Baldur's Gate, CS, GTA 1 etc. And I've always been a fan of RPGs on SNES.

**What has been the best part of being the community manager? What about the hardest?**

> The best part is simply being part of this community. A community manager is useless without his community.
> 
> As for the difficulties, they are to come. The more people hear about us, the harder the work will be.

**What can people do to help create and maintain the best community?**

> We are already the best community, so we need to keep doing what we are already doing while respecting each other. 
>
> We already have the resources that allow us all to contribute in our own way and we also have people who are willing to help others get their hands dirty.
