# BICH News #9
### New beginnings
### Happy INCHmas season!

Welcome to a special back-to-back BICH News edition.

This will be our final newsletter for the year and perhaps for a while.  
I thought about waiting till Christmas to publish this, but time and focus are so precious. And we have much work to do. 

Last Christmas, Hale Dao donated 1 ZNN enabling the creation of the INCHES token and the birth of the Big Inches Club House.

BICH DAO then slumbered for a few months until it was rudely awaken by a cacophony of shrill whining.  
Very small PP. Likely negative inches.

BICH DAO then swiftly declared network jihad and war on fud.

Many believed that the community was not capable of carrying out the necessary development work for our network to reach its full potential.

And so BICH DAO began research and work on HTLCs, a piece of work small in scope but hopefully not in significance. 

My goal was to give the community a choice: bitch or BICH?  
Would our community be represented by those who cry, or those who try?

Success is never a guarantee. Our path will be filled with obstacles and set backs.  
But those with Big Inches know what the stakes are and how crucial our mission is.

The path must be taken. The weight must be carried.  
For those blessed with the dual fortune/burden of big inches: Noblesse oblige!

Fortunately our community has proven itself to be well endowed.  
And with recent events, more and more understand that It Had To Be This Way.

With regards to the HTLC work, I am happy to say that I view it as a success.  
Not simply from the perspective of implementation, but more so in our ability to begin organically working together as a community to develop the network.

So in particular, I want to thank CryptoFish, deeZNNutz and yes even Chadass for engaging with the code and helping to test it.  
And as we inch closer and closer to bringing htlcs onto the network, it is likely that we will have more people to thank soon.

I assume there is some disappointment around the phase 1 article.  
Hopefully for most people, it just confirms what we already knew. It Had To Be This Way. 

For me phase 1 has and still means finishing the implementation of our core mechanics and incentives, eg sentinels, liquidity/orbital, smart contracts, bitcoin interop, etc.

I’ve worked under this assumption and have tried to temper community expectations (eg in the Twitter spaces). 

Of course, I welcome any additional code that the founding devs may grant us.  
But I also think all further dev work should go through AZ regardless of who it comes from.

deeZNNutz wrote a [great article](https://deeznnutz.medium.com/wen-zenon-network-article-2d24521930cf) on his perspective of phase 1 so I won’t repeat too much of it. 

But what I can see is that number of engaged community devs is higher than ever.  
And every day there seems to be more and more thoughtful work and discussion - some public, some behind the scenes.

The conditions that had awoken BICH DAO from its slumber no longer exist.  
Of course we will always have future complainers, but as I have said before, their cries will soon be drowned out by the work of those who believe and try.

BICH DAO’s strategy for dealing with small PP has been multi-pronged: out bitch them, out perform them, then meme them.

BICH DAO will never hesitate to do the needful.  
Such is the life of the network mujahideen.  
Yet we must understand our history and our future.

The internet has allowed people from all over the world to connect.

In the real world, physical identification and force are the ultimate adjudicators of which connections and networks thrive.

In the digital world, we can transcend these physical limitations but face the challenge of Sybil identities, bots, and bad actors/trolls.  
It has been an essential aspect of digital culture and life.  
Perhaps considered unavoidable by many.

And so we’ve created ways to deal with it.  
We use memes and jokes to identify in-group membership, often at the expense of others.  
An economy of attention bidding on wit and creativity.  
It is no longer enough to be right, one must also be entertaining!

Without physical force, we resort to overwhelming insult.  
If we cannot remove someone, we make it inhospitable for them to be there.

Good? Bad? Enjoyable? A nightmare?  
Regardless of your feelings, this is the nature of our current medium.

But we can create an alternative.  
Fundamentally decentralized networks and tokenization are about new trustless ways to collaborate, new ways to share risk and rewards.  
While the internet allowed us to connect, it didn’t provide us a native way to engage economically.

While memes, jokes, and insults will always be an essential part of internet culture,  
I believe that NoM will enable shared economic prosperity to become the dominant force of the internet.

I believe it will help each person find a group of people with whom they can connect with,  
And build their lives with and for each other.  
I hope that leads to a kinder and more peaceful world.  

Shazz likes to quote Balaji of Network States so I will paraphrase a tweet I remember:

> “Previously it has been about getting everyone online. Now it will be about getting everyone aligned.”

And so BICH DAO will soon return to its slumber.  
And that is related to another announcement I want to make. 

I recently spun up a pillar called Ignition.

Some people have asked if it was me, not a hard guess, but I’ve deflected.  
Apparently there are some schizo theories out there so I am sorry to disappoint.

The Latin phrase “Per aspera ad astra” is not an uncommon one.  
It fits our general theme of space and I believe our current period of hardship will be followed by immense success.  
(For those who can see it through).  

I’ve joked before that the pillar couldn’t be me because I clearly don’t follow Acta non verba. 

I chose the name Ignition because again, it fits our space theme,  
and I hope my actions can play a non-trivial part in helping to ignite the community and the potential of our network.

Nothing more, nothing less. I have seen some of the schizo materials you have dug up.  
I was not aware of any of it. And want to put any theories to rest.  
The community’s detective abilities and imagination are truly out of this world and alien.

If our network was more developed, I think my preference would have been for the pillar to remain relatively low-key.

But I want to apply many of the ideas I have about the possibility of pillars, and I can’t really do that without being obvious.

I spend quite a bit of time on NoM.  
But this is not a social activity for me.  
I put (burn) my money where my convictions lie. 

For me on a personal level, phase 1 also means more than just network capabilities, but also a step towards making a living off of NoM.

When I started accepting donations for BICH DAO my initial goal was to just get enough support from people who liked the message to keep publishing newsletters.  
I’ve since received a significant amount of donations from the community. It has been very encouraging.

Most community members have not been able to receive the same amount of support I have.

In Sigli’s Proposal, Sigli writes how he was hesitant to make a proposal since many people have given so much and asked for nothing.

My goal for phase 1 is to help myself and others who want to build their livelihoods on NoM.  
First so that they can sustain themselves, and then so that they have the means to the thrive as the network does.

That means being a rational actor.  
A shift from doing something because having big inches demands it, to doing something because it is financially sound.

That means setting an open and honest example.  
For example, I don’t believe that necessitates revealing all my addresses,  
but I do think that means if I accept donations I should be open about my pillar ownership.  
(My last few newsletters did not ask for donations).

That means working more closely with community members that embody the Zenon ethos so that we can help each other find opportunities to add value.  
I don’t believe in no string attached giveaways, but I would love to see more pillars owned by HyperCore/HyperGrowth team members.  

But more importantly also it means not sacrificing the principles that have led me to believe so much in this network.  
That means no pump and dumps. No unnecessary tokenization or rent-seeking.  

It will likely be a while before I can completely replace my current job income with NoM,  
but I know if I keep delivering value to the network, that it is within reach.

BICH DAO must rest for now.  
But the fire rises.  

Some housekeeping:  

- The existing htlc proposal work will continue under the BICH namespaces
- I still owe deeZNNutz a ZIP
- Maintenance for go-zdk and future tooling will be moved under Ignition 
- Zenon Wiki will be revived and focused on technical documentation to enable other builders (AZ proposal soon)
- Zenon wiki matrix will be shut down and Ignition matrix will be launched
- Delegator service access zoon 
- More Twitter spaces zoon
- To maintain neutrality, BICH DAO donations have not been delegated or staked. As a rational actor, I will begin delegating them to Ignition

Regarding the INCHES token:

I’ve never formally announced it but for donators to BICH DAO I have been sending out the INCHES token as a meme token of my appreciation.  
Word has gotten out and recently other community members have joined in the fun and used INCHES for their own reasons.

I am a US citizen and thus subject to US laws. 

While I think there is much constructive criticism on the role of the SEC etc,  
on principle I believe in the rule of law and in practice,  
getting in trouble would greatly hinder my ability to contribute and build the network.

That said, I also believe that when we are acting lawfully that we should proceed with dignity and without fear. 

First, I offer no terms of sale.  
Funds sent to BICH DAO should be given as a donation.  
I provide no guarantees that I will provide anything in return.  

I cannot control the external market but I do control the supply.  
One of the problems with premined tokens is that the creator can deceptively distribute to themselves.  
I will attest that I have not sent any INCHES tokens to myself.  
And also I will attest that I have not "donated" any ZNN to myself to deceptively give myself tokens.  
But you cannot trust me on this.  
As such you should not place any sort of monetary value on the INCHES token.  

I make no claims of yield or return.  
Using ZNN or other resources for the sole purpose of acquiring INCHES will almost certainly not be a good financial decision.  

That being said, I do want to do some fun community things for INCHES holders to show my gratitude.  
Some things I will need to be careful about but for example, possibly letting users redeem INCHES to ask me questions, write essays, draw something, play games together, etc.  

With that out of the way, I will once again start asking for your support as I try and make being a Zenon contributor a viable career for myself and for the other community members who I can see have so much to offer.  

## Support
If you would like to support our efforts, please consider donating to:
z1qraay709q07a28jn6arj085sfx8pqmzfmchlwl

Till BICH DAO awakes again:  
If you like our efforts, you can let us know by posting the following where we can see it:

### /thank_you_bich_dao
